README.md, before:

# cfeistel
<p>Implementation of a basic Feistel cipher in C. Needless to say, it's just a glorified C programming exercise and NOT intended to be used as actual crypto.
It operates on 16 bytes blocks and an 8 bytes key, in CBC, ECB and CTR mode, on files of any size.
The key is given as an input string as of now, but I'm going to make it possible to specify a file as key.</p>
<p>The "f" part of the cipher has no real cryptographic value but still serves the purpose of showing a Feistel cipher in motion. It aspires to be a very simple SP network.</p>
<p>I plan on implementing more modes of operation and a proper padding scheme and/or ciphertext stealing. 
ECB, CTR and CBC (decryption only) allow parallel processing.</p>

# Installation
<p>Clone this repo, cd into it and <code>make</code>. Make sure you have make (and a C compiler) installed.
Note that I may have used some Linux-specific functions to log processing progress, so it might refuse to compile anywhere else for now.</p>
<p>Optionally, you can pass the <code>DEBUG</code> compiler flag by means of <code>make CFLAGS="-DDEBUG"</code> to get block-by-block logging, useful on very small inputs to debug the cipher's logic and multithreading.<br>
The <code>SEQ</code> compiler flag disables parallelization and executes the cipher sequentially.<br>
The <code>QUIET</code> compiler flag disables the usual info output.</p>

# Usage
`./cfeistel <enc|dec> [-k key] [-i infile] [-o outfile] [-m mode]`

- `enc` provides encryption and `dec` provides decryption.  
- `-k` specifies a string to be used as a key.
- `-m` specifies the mode of operation, and accepts *ecb*, *cbc*, and *ctr*.
- `-i` specifies the input file to be encrypted or decrypted.
- `-o` specifies the output file where the result will be written.

If no parameters are specified default values are used.
<em>in</em> is the default input file, <em>out</em> is the default output file, <em>secretkey</em> is the default key value and <em>ctr</em> is the default mode.<br>

# Test script
I included a shell script that greatly facilitates testing, by automatically compiling the program, creating a file of any desired size, performing encryption and decryption and comparing the md5 checksum of the result against pre-encyption data to determine if the process worked as it should.

Usage: <code>./test.sh [-mb] <file_size> [-m <mode>] [-k <key>] [-dk <dec_key>] [-ek <enc_key>]  [-d] [-t]</code>

- `file_size` specifies the size of the file that the script will generate expressed, by default, in bytes
- `-mb` specifies that the given file size is expressed in MBs rather than in bytes.
- `-m <mode>` specifies which operation mode to test, and accepts the same modes as the cfeistel executable.
- `-k <key>` specifies the key string to use for both encryption and decryption.
- `-dk <dec_key>` specifies the key string to use for decryption.
- `-ek <enc_key>` specifies the key string to use for encryption.
- `-d` enables block-by-block logging and redirects the logs of encryption and decryption to text files.
- `-t` makes the script perform encryption and decryption on a human-readable text file instead of reading random bytes from /dev/urandom.

Note that the `-d` option will only be accepted if the set size is 1mb (1048576 bytes) or less, to avoid the creation of huge text files.
In case `-d` and `-t` are used together, both the generated text file and the result of the decryption will be appended to the log files.

# Known issues
- The IV generation for CBC and CTR modes is basicly just a placeholder for now. It's simply derived from the key, so it's neither random nor unpredictable. This cipher does not aspire to be actually <em>secure</em>, but I'd still like to provide a decent approximation of how a cryptographically sound Feistel cipher might look like.
- The cipher is using an 8 byte round key, and as of now the program ignores every input character after the 8-th. "SecretkeyA" and "SecretkeyB" are considered the same. I'd like to handle this a bit better, maybe by revising the key scheduling in such a way that, despite still using an 8 byte chunk of the key for each round, the cipher still takes into consideration the fact that the user entered a different key.
- As I already touched upon, the "f" black box that implements the SP network is made with a <em>just do something</em> mentality. It parrots DES a little bit. I do intend on studying what makes an SP network cryptographically sound and how to design one that's a bit more thought out.

Commit message:

some more refinements to the test script

README.md, after:

# cfeistel
<p>Implementation of a basic Feistel cipher in C. Needless to say, it's just a glorified C programming exercise and NOT intended to be used as actual crypto.
It operates on 16 bytes blocks and an 8 bytes key, in CBC, ECB and CTR mode, on files of any size.
The key is given as an input string as of now, but I'm going to make it possible to specify a file as key.</p>
<p>The "f" part of the cipher has no real cryptographic value but still serves the purpose of showing a Feistel cipher in motion. It aspires to be a very simple SP network.</p>
<p>I plan on implementing more modes of operation and a proper padding scheme and/or ciphertext stealing. 
ECB, CTR and CBC (decryption only) allow parallel processing.</p>

# Installation
<p>Clone this repo, cd into it and <code>make</code>. Make sure you have make (and a C compiler) installed.
Note that I may have used some Linux-specific functions to log processing progress, so it might refuse to compile anywhere else for now.</p>
<p>Optionally, you can pass the <code>DEBUG</code> compiler flag by means of <code>make CFLAGS="-DDEBUG"</code> to get block-by-block logging, useful on very small inputs to debug the cipher's logic and multithreading.<br>
The <code>SEQ</code> compiler flag disables parallelization and executes the cipher sequentially.<br>
The <code>QUIET</code> compiler flag disables the usual info output.</p>

# Usage
`./cfeistel <enc|dec> [-k key] [-i infile] [-o outfile] [-m mode]`

- `enc` provides encryption and `dec` provides decryption.  
- `-k` specifies a string to be used as a key.
- `-m` specifies the mode of operation, and accepts *ecb*, *cbc*, and *ctr*.
- `-i` specifies the input file to be encrypted or decrypted.
- `-o` specifies the output file where the result will be written.

If no parameters are specified default values are used.
<em>in</em> is the default input file, <em>out</em> is the default output file, <em>secretkey</em> is the default key value and <em>ctr</em> is the default mode.<br>

# Test script
I included a shell script that greatly facilitates testing, by automatically compiling the program, creating a file of any desired size, performing encryption and decryption and comparing the md5 checksum of the result against pre-encyption data to determine if the process worked as it should.

Usage: <code>./test.sh [-mb] <file_size> [-m <mode>] [-k <key>] [-dk <dec_key>] [-ek <enc_key>]  [-d] [-t] [-r]</code>

- `file_size` specifies the size of the file that the script will generate expressed, by default, in bytes
- `-mb` specifies that the given file size is expressed in MBs rather than in bytes.
- `-m <mode>` specifies which operation mode to test, and accepts the same modes as the cfeistel executable.
- `-k <key>` specifies the key string to use for both encryption and decryption.
- `-dk <dec_key>` specifies the key string to use for decryption.
- `-ek <enc_key>` specifies the key string to use for encryption.
- `-d` enables block-by-block logging and redirects the logs of encryption and decryption to text files.
- `-t` makes the script perform encryption and decryption on a human-readable text file instead of reading random bytes from /dev/urandom.
- `-r` makes the script create a file where the same content is repeated for every 16 bytes block, in order to test block dependency propagation (or lack thereof).

Note that `-d` and `-t` options will only be accepted if the set size is 1mb (1048576 bytes) or less. This will avoid the creation of huge text files that would both make your text editor cry in pain and defeat the purpose of printing these stuff out in the first place.<br> 
In case `-d` and `-t` are used together, both the generated text file and the result of the decryption will be appended to the log files.

# Known issues
- The IV generation for CBC and CTR modes is basicly just a placeholder for now. It's simply derived from the key, so it's neither random nor unpredictable. This cipher does not aspire to be actually <em>secure</em>, but I'd still like to provide a decent approximation of what a cryptographically sound Feistel cipher might look like.
- The cipher is using an 8 byte round key, and as of now the program ignores every input character after the 8-th. "SecretkeyA" and "SecretkeyB" are considered the same. I'd like to handle this a bit better, maybe by revising the key scheduling in such a way that, despite still using an 8 byte chunk of the key for each round, the cipher still takes into consideration the fact that the user entered a different key.
- As I already touched upon, the "f" black box that implements the SP network is made with a <em>just do something</em> mentality. It parrots DES a little bit. I do intend on studying what makes an SP network cryptographically sound and how to design one that's a bit more thought out.
